With Tigray forces advancing towards Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa and the humanitarian crises escalating, UN Secretary-General António Guterres in a Tweet on Wednesday voiced concern "about the evolution of the situation in Ethiopia" and said he offered to assist in opening a "dialogue" in a phone call with Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, who earlier in the week declared a state of emergency. U.S. Special Envoy Jeffrey Feltman travelled to Addis on Thursday in response to "continued escalation of armed conflict and civil unrest in Amhara, Afar and Tigray", the State Department said. Both the African Union Commission Chair Moussa Faki Mahamat and Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta have urged the parties to find a peaceful solution. The executive cecretary of the regional Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Dr Workneh Gebeyehu, a former high-raking Ethiopian official, joined in with a statement calling on all parties "to show restraint, work on de-escalating the tensions and resolve their differences through an all-inclusive national dialogue and reconciliation in the best interest of the country and the region." "The first thing that has to happen is a cease-fire," UN Ambassador Linda-Thomas-Greenfield told the Council on Foreign Relations in New York Thursday night, endorsing the Guterres appeal. "Having humanitarian assistance restricted is unacceptable," she said, indicating that she expected the UN Security Council to meet on the crisis soon. Outlining U.S. policy in a speech on Tuesday, Feltman said: " We urge Ethiopian leaders- from all parties - to take the steps necessary to arrest the current trajectory and permit its peoples and its partners to restore the promise that Prime Minister Abiy so compellingly outlined at the start of his premiership." The Biden administration has announced sanctions that could take effect if the Ethiopian government refuses to negotiate.Late Thursday,ranking Democratic and Republican Senators introduced legistaltion suspending American security assistance to Ethiopia and authorizing American support for conflict resolution/ The government has shown no signs of a willingness to negotiate and, in a statement on Thursday, accused Facebook and Reuters of spreading false information.