There has been a few bursts of brilliance from the African continent at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. South African athletes saw a silver medal win for Tatjana Schoemaker in the women's 100m breaststroke, while compatriot, surfer Bianca Buitendag won Silver in her event. Gold soon followed for Schoenmaker who set the pool alight with a stroke of genius that saw her set a world record in the 200m breaststroke in a time of 2:18.95. Tunisian swimmer Ahmed Hafnaoui won gold in the 400m freestyle in a time of 3:43.36. Ethiopian athlete Selemon Barega powered to a 10,000m win in a time of 27:43.22. Nigeria's Esme Brume won her country's first athletics gold medal in 13 years in the long jump with a leap of 6:97m. Meanwhile, athletes made headlines for their actions outside the stadium too. Several Nigerian athletes protested against their disqualification for their failure to undertake three mandatory, out-of-competition drug tests. Nigeria's gold medal hope, athlete Blessing Okagbare, has also been banned for using an illegal substance. The athletes have laid the blame for their woes at the door of the Nigerian athletics federation. Ugandan weightlifter Julius Sekitoleko disappeared, and on his subsequent return home, faces four days of detention. Namibian athletes Christine Mboma and Beatrice Masilingi were withdrawn from the 400m event after it was revealed that they failed the world athletics sex-testing eligibility criteria. Despite this setback, the two Namibian athletes qualified for the 200m track event - making history as the first Namibian women to qualify for a track final at the Olympics and the first Namibian athletes overall, since Frank Fredericks 25 years ago in Atlanta. Christina Mboma won Silver in the 200m event, in her Olympic debut. Other disappointments include South Africa's Wayde Van Niekerk missing his chance to defend his 400m world title and Chad Le Clos also missing his chance at Gold, placing fifth in the men's 200m butterfly swimming event. Let's wait and see if the continent's athletes can earn more podium finishes at Olympics 2020.