Creators of a new U.S. reality show, The Activist, that pits activists promoting charitable causes against each other, were forced to go back to the drawing board following a massive backlash. The celebs were to compete to see who could raise the most awareness for a cause connected to health, education, or the environment. Winning teams were to advance to the G20 Summit in Rome to get world leaders on board. Social media users accused the show of trivialising such causes, at a time when in many countries, activists are being jailed or otherwise repressed in their bid to stand up for human rights. The new format will "showcase the tireless work of six activists and the impact they have, advocating for causes they deeply believe in," per the statement, with each activist receiving a cash grant for the organisation of their choice. Celebrities have engaged in this high-profile advocacy for decades. Because of their fame, celebrities can entice regular people, along with politicians, wealthy philanthropists, and corporations, to embrace a cause. Humanitarian agencies and non-governmental organisations often use celebrities to draw attention to advocacy campaigns. However, when the goal is slowing the impact of climate change, fighting bigotry, or improving access to health care - when celebrities engage in activism, excitement over the celebrities can overwhelm the activism, writes Alexandra Budabin and Lisa Ann Richey for The Conversation. An example is Ben Affleck's Eastern Congo Initiative in partnership with Starbucks. They claimed to transform the coffee sector in Congo to advance peace and development. Unfortunately, the initiative had no expertise in coffee production and little knowledge of rural development. Despite professing to serve up a "cup of hope," research later showed that this collaboration made hardly any difference for the farmers it was supposed to help. Global Citizen issued its own statement, saying: "Global activism centres on collaboration and cooperation, not competition. We apologize to the activists, hosts, and the larger activist community - we got it wrong."